Expedited Internet Bypass Protocol (EIBP) was developed to replace the current Internet Protocol and its routing protocols in routers in an Autonomous System (AS). 
EIBP establishes routes taking into consideration the structure of AS networks. 
The Core routers are identified as tier 1 routers, distribution routers are identified as tier 2 routers and access routers are identified as tier 3 routers. 
Core routers are assigned identifier that captures their tier value followed by a unique identifier such as 1.x, where x is unique integer assigned to the router.
When EIBP is invoked in the routers, the core routers advertise their tier addresses, and the distribution routers get a tier address which is 2.x.y, 
where y is the interface of the core router to which the distribution router is connected. In a similar manner, access routers receive tier addresses. 
Distribution and access router will receive multiple tier addresses based on their connections to an upper tier router. 
This auto address assignment sets up the routes, as the tier addresses carry the information required to route.
End hosts connected to the access routers remain as IP enabled devices and do not run EIBP. 
Access routers connecting the end hosts/networks learn their IP address of the networks they connect. 
Access routers record a table of their tier addresses mapped to the IP networks. This information is conveyed to the core routers. 
Core routers thus have knowledge of the tier addresses of access routers to reach the end IP hosts or networks.
When an IP packet arrives at an access router destined to another IP host /network, 
the access router queries the core router for the tier addresses of the access router connecting the destination IP host/network.
The access router encapsulates the incoming IP packet in an EIBP header that has the source access router tier address and destination access router tier address 
and performs a comparison of the tier addresses to forward the encapsulated IP packet to the router closest to the destination access router, 
till it reaches the destination access router. The destination access router, de-encapsulates the IP packet and delivers to the destination IP host/network.

EIBP requires minimal configuration. 
The hello and dead timers to speed up failure recovery can be set to a low value. 
Every EIBP message serves as a keep-alive message. 
The control overhead generated is very low.
The code is deployed in the Fabric testbed and compared with OSPF running in identical topologies.
